---
title: "Take off your colored glasses"
publishDate: "2023-08-03T12:24:48.294Z"
description: "Rid yourself of all preconceived notions"
tags: ["thoughts"]
---

I just finished part one of
[_Don’t Worry Because 90% of Your Worries Won’t Come True_](https://literal.club/book/shunmyo-masuno-dont-worry-because-90percent-of-your-worries-wont-come-true-idmmd)
earlier today, but I just had to talk a little bit about one of the _zengo_ (Zen
saying). It goes something like this: _Don’t wear colored glasses_.

I actually have a story to share that directly relates to this Zen saying. I
worked in-office for a couple of months at the start of my career. The first day
at my new job, I was introduced to most of my colleagues, and shortly after, we
all sat down at our desks. After I setup my Macbook, and looked around, I
noticed the chair of the person directly behind me was empty.

But what caught my attention was a pen that was sitting directly upright.
Curious, I asked the person to the right of the empty chair: “where is this
guy?” Everyone that sat behind me happened to be the _most_ senior-most members
of the team (not in seniority, but in age, as well as tenure at the company).
While asking my question, I gestured at the pen sitting upright. I was
immediately met with two colleagues who were almost hesitant to answer that
question. Finally, the person on the right answered: “That’s **MS**. No matter
what, _**do not touch anything on his desk**_. They also added, “_**and make
sure to always wish him good morning**_. As they continued, I was told that
**MS** was extremely grumpy, and that I should, in general, try not to piss him
off.

_“Wtf lmao”_ I said to myself. How bad can this dude be? First day wrapped up
fairly quickly, and he never showed up to work, so I didn’t pay it that much
attention. Next day, however, as I walked to my desk, I see the pen from
yesterday in the exact same position. But I also see **MS** sitting at his desk.
Sure enough, his posture alone told me he was likely bad news. He _slouched_—not
in a bad posture way—but in a “_I hate everyone around me_” way, and he had
headphones on at 9AM in the morning. Everyone was talking about their day, but
this guy was already working, almost as if he wanted to get the fuck out of
there as soon as possible.

Not gonna lie, I was assuming too much based off of a single piece of
information: this was no good. As I continue with my story, you’ll see I was
also very wrong in doing so.

> If you base your evaluation of someone on just one piece of information, or a
> negative idea or emotion you have from a single facet of what you’ve seen of
> him, you will inevitably misjudge him.

9:30AM, I head to my standup which usually lasted 5-10 minutes. I come out of
the meeting room, walk downstairs to grab some tea from Starbucks, and head back
around 10AM to my desk. **MS** is still sat the exact same way at his desk.
Still looking like he barely wanted to be there. My curious nature got the
better of me (_and I’m so glad it did!_), as I waited for him to take off his
headphones so I could finally introduce myself to him. This time, the colleague
who sat to the left of me warned me: “_don’t. You’re gonna get yelled at._”

_Fuck it_. I tapped him on this shoulder, only for him to turn around with his
headphones already off his head, and without hesitation, he introduced himself
in the thickest _Québécois_ accent: _Bonjour, my name is **MS**_, **PL** (the
woman who sat beside him) already told me your name. Nice to meet you. The
emphasis was on the _bonjour_.

_Shit_. I forgot to wish him a good morning. Turns around, and starts typing
away on his keyboard almost immediately. _Okay_, maybe he’s not as friendly as
I’d expected him to be. But definitely not _rude_. My colleague who sat to the
left of me just says: “_you got lucky, I’d say_”. Then he starts working, too.

Over the next few days, we barely had any interaction. We had cleaners come in
every morning, but **they too** didn’t touch his desk. By the end of the first
week, I just **_had_** to find out the deal with the upright pen. On Friday
morning, I tapped on his shoulder again. Once again, his headphones came off
before he even turned to face me. Only this time, he stared blankly at me. After
hearing all that stuff about **MS**, I didn’t want to waste a single moment of
his time, so I wished him a good morning, and immediately followed up with:
“_why do you have a pen sitting upright like that?_” In my head, I thought there
has to be a good reason behind it: surely, **MS** would not _dilly-dally_ and
fuck around at work.

**MS** turned around, without saying a word. I thought to myself: _fuck_, did I
piss him off? Before I could finish the sentence in my head, he tipped the pen
over. Then he turned around, and asked me to put it back in its original state.

_Gulp_. Now, I was getting late for standup, the CTO already walked past me, and
asked me to join the rest of the team. Yet here I was, trying to put the pen
back upright. For some reason, this task seemed more urgent at the time. _Of
course it did_. After all, nobody warned me about the CTO being overtly rude.
They did, however, warn me not to piss off **MS**. So I tried a couple of times,
and soon enough, **MS** grabs the pen from me, and swiftly places it upright,
almost as if he had practiced this several times. Our eyes meet, as he laughs
hysterically, and says, “_only I can do this_,” as he continues to smile smugly.

At this point, I head to my standup, and come out as usual within 10 minutes,
only to see **MS** quarreling with **ZL** (the colleague who sat to his left).
As I got close to them, I realized: they weren’t quarreling, but competing to
see who could get the pen to sit upright the fastest. **ZL** also had his pen
sitting upright. They both tipped their pen over. **MS** won, fair and square,
at which point, he turned around and started conversing with me _and_ my
colleague. We were both taken aback, but as we continued talking, we both came
to the realization that **MS**... _wasn’t so bad after all_. In fact, the dude
was _hella chill_.

Over time, we got to know each other. As much as the age-gap allowed, and as
much as we could get to know each other without our questions getting to
personal. Each time, though, it was **MS** who would initiate the conversation
that led to us finding out more about him.

“_Do you have a girlfriend?_” We’d answer, then he’d exclaim: “_ah, I’m too old
to have a girlfriend_”, then add on: “_but I love drinking wine with my female
companion whenever I get the chance. On a good day, we’ll finish the whole
bottle together_.”

“_Kunall, why do you have your headphones on all the time?_” As if **MS** didn’t
do the same. Later on, I’d find out that **MS** cannot work with all these
people talking around him. Just like me.

**MS** loved listening to music, too, though. He would come in early (7AM),
blast his radio (_yes, AM/FM radio_) till more people rolled in, then put on his
headphones. He wasn’t listening to music anymore, though. He only had them on
for the noise cancelling feature. It’s not that he didn’t want to be bothered,
he just wanted work to be about work. That’s all.

**MS** came in so early (and therefore left early, too) not because he hated
working with us. But because he lived in Quebec, and past 2PM, he was guaranteed
to be stuck in traffic for hours.

**MS** wanted you to say good morning each day because he was the oldest at the
company, and elders deserve that much respect at least. He would sometimes walk
out from internal meetings, or simply head home if he had had enough. At his
age, he had heard and seen a lot, yet he never got rude with a client. So it
didn’t make sense to him how someone could be rude towards him. Again, he was a
bit old-school, but you can’t change how people act or respond. Not at his age.
He expected everyone around him to understand that.

“_**NF** (colleague who sat to my right), you seem stressed today. Everything
OK?_” **NF** would explain how he got chewed out by one of the clients.
“[_Tabarnak!_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quebec_French_profanity)” **MS**
would always say that whenever he wanted to amplify an emotion, often a negative
one. But he **never** used it as an insult.

It’s not that **MS** didn’t like his things being touched: he just expected his
belongings to be put back the same way he had left them. He was just extremely
particular about things.

Basically, this was a long-winded way of me saying: _rid yourself of all
preconceived notions. Take off your colored glasses_.
