---
title: "侘寂"
publishDate: "15 May 2020"
description:
  "A series of Japanese folklore that have helped me embrace the notion of
  imperfection & transience"
tags: ["thoughts"]
---

A series of Japanese folklore that have helped me embrace the notion of
imperfection & transience.

### Ashikaga Yoshimasa

In the late 15th century, during the _Muromachi_ period, there was a powerful
shogun named _Ashikaga Yoshimasa_. He possessed a much-loved Chinese tea bowl, a
rare and treasured piece of ceramic. One day, this precious bowl accidentally
fell and broke into pieces.

Distressed by the damage to his cherished bowl, the shogun decided to send it to
China for repairs. However, upon its return, he found that the mended vessel was
held together with unsightly metal staples. This disappointed _Yoshimasa_, as
the repaired bowl had lost its original beauty and grace.

Determined to find a more elegant solution, _Yoshimasa_ called upon Japanese
craftsmen to devise a better method of repair. Eventually, a skilled artisan
came up with the idea of using lacquer mixed with powdered gold to mend the
broken pieces. This technique not only repaired the bowl but also added a new
dimension of beauty and value to it. He admired the repaired bowl and was struck
by its new appearance, where the gold veins seemed to embrace the cracks like
shimmering scars.

This practice soon became popular and was recognized as _Kintsugi_, an art form
that not only restored broken ceramics, but elevated them into symbols of
resilience and beauty.

### Sen no Rikyū

Once upon a time, a young _Sen no Rikyū_ approached _Takeno Jōō_, a recognized
tea master at the time to learn the codes of the ancestral ritual of tea
ceremony. To test the abilities of his new apprentice, the latter asked him to
take care of his garden. _Rikyū_ cleaned it from top to bottom and raked it
until it was **perfect**. But before calling for his master, he shook a cherry
tree, and sakura flowers fell to the ground.

This touch of imperfection brought beauty to the scene, further attributing to
the fact that there _is_ beauty in imperfection.

### Kaguya-hime

This is a story that details the life of Princess _Kaguya_, who was discovered
by a bamboo cutter inside a bamboo stalk. Within just three months, she grows
into an adult woman, and becomes exceptionally beautiful. Many men seek her hand
in marriage, however, she refuses all proposals.

Princess _Kaguya_ sets a series of impossible tasks for her suitors, stating she
would only marry the noble who can bring her the stone begging bowl of the
Buddha, a jeweled branch from the mythical island of Hōrai, a robe of Chinese
fire-rat skins, a colored jewel from a dragon's neck, and a cowry shell born
from a swallow. They all fail, but soon she meets the Emperor of Japan, who also
shows interest in her. She does not ask of him to complete the same impossible
tasks, but rejects his request for marriage as well, telling him that she is not
from his country and therefore cannot go to the palace with him.

Whenever Princess _Kaguya_ views the full moon, her eyes fill with tears. Soon,
she reveals that she is not of Earth, but rather she comes from the Moon. She
adds, that she was sent here to Earth as a form of punishment for some crime,
because she would inevitably form material attachment. Then one day, an embassy
of heavenly beings descend upon the bamboo cutter’s house, which is when she
announces that, though she loves her many friends on Earth, she must return with
the beings to her true home on the Moon.

This story emphasizes the fleeting nature of beauty and the acceptance of
_impermanence_ in life.
